
# Optimal Kernel Selection in Kernel FisherDiscriminant Analysis: An Analysis


#### Project for Selecting an Opitimal Kernel using KFDA with low resources. 

## Abstract: 

Kernel Fisher Discriminant Analysis (KFDA) uses a Kernel function that operates on a higher dimension without implicitly calculating the coordinates of each data point. This method is popular mainly because it reduces the cost of computation by a significant amount. KFDA finds the direction in feature space as defined implicitly by the Kernel. The performance of the KFDA varies with the choice of the kernel. The popular choices of Kernels include the Gaussian or polynomial family of Kernels. To enhance the performance of the Kernel, the Kernel parameters are tuned with cross-validation or generalized-cross-validation method. However, the choice of an optimal Kernel requires a careful analysis keeping in mind the maximum achievable Fisher Discriminant Ratio (FDR). This choice of Optimal kernel selection considering the FDR is called the Optimal Kernel Selection problem in Kernel Fisher Discriminant Analysis.

* The Dataset used for this project is 

1. [PIMA](https://github.com/LamaHamadeh/Pima-Indians-Diabetes-DataSet-UCI) Dataset: This problem is comprised of 768 observations of medical details for Pima indians patents. The records describe instantaneous measurements taken from the patient such as their age, the number of times pregnant and blood workup. All patients are women aged 21 or older. All attributes are numeric, and their units vary from attribute to attribute. Each record has a class value that indicates whether the patient suffered an onset of diabetes within 5 years of when the measurements were taken (1) or not (0). This is a standard dataset that has been studied a lot in machine learning literature. A good prediction accuracy is 70%-76%. In this repository, we study this dataset by using K nearest neighbour classification method

2. [SONAR](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/undocumented/connectionist-bench/sonar/) Dataset: The file "sonar.mines" contains 111 patterns obtained by bouncing sonar signals off a metal cylinder at various angles and under various conditions. The file "sonar.rocks" contains 97 patterns obtained from rocks under similar conditions. The transmitted sonar signal is a frequency-modulated chirp, rising in frequency. The data set contains signals obtained from a variety of different aspect angles, spanning 90 degrees for the cylinder and 180 degrees for the rock. Each pattern is a set of 60 numbers in the range 0.0 to 1.0. Each number represents the energy within a particular frequency band, integrated over a certain period of time. The integration aperture for higher frequencies occur later in time, since these frequencies are transmitted later during the chirp. The label associated with each record contains the letter "R" if the object is a rock and "M" if it is a mine (metal cylinder). The numbers in the labels are in increasing order of aspect angle, but they do not encode the angle directly.

3. [IONOSPHERE](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Ionosphere) Dataset: This radar data was collected by a system in Goose Bay, Labrador. This system consists of a phased array of 16 high-frequency antennas with a total transmitted power on the order of 6.4 kilowatts. See the paper for more details. The targets were free electrons in the ionosphere. "Good" radar returns are those showing evidence of some type of structure in the ionosphere. "Bad" returns are those that do not; their signals pass through the ionosphere. Received signals were processed using an autocorrelation function whose arguments are the time of a pulse and the pulse number. There were 17 pulse numbers for the Goose Bay system. Instances in this databse are described by 2 attributes per pulse number, corresponding to the complex values returned by the function resulting from the complex electromagnetic signal.